# TextMate Bundle for FileMaker
#### Revision: 3/13/11

# Introduction #

This is my ongoing enhancement of the FileMaker bundle posted by Matt Petrowsky.  His bundle was a simplification of the original bundle by Charles Ross.  This version mostly adds to the commands.

# Features #

- Tab triggers for FileMaker functions
- Commands
	- Manipulating/generating calculations
	- Manipulating/generating FileMaker clipboard XML
	- Extracting data from the DDR

## Tab Triggers ##

Tab triggers exist for every native FileMaker function, each named after the function itself. Templates are included for function parameters to allow you to tab through them.  To discover or modify the abbreviated tab triggers, find the function in the FileMaker bundle menu (Bundles>FileMaker>[Function Category]>[Function Name]).

There is one version of each snippet, adjusted for the conventions I use at Beezwax Datatools. Keyword shorthand versions of words:

	record = rec
	number = num
	summary = sum
	timestamp = ts
	evaluate = eval
	object = ob
	value(s) = val

## Function Enclosing ##

Functions will be closed as you type them, meaning that the ending parentheses will be added automatically.

## Documentation Lookup ##

## Commands ##

Functions are organized according to the type of text being worked with.

### Calculations ###

### Clipboard ###

Handles XML text extracted from the FileMaker clipboard.  Can be pasted back into your FileMaker solutions using utilities like fmClipboardBroker or Clip Manager.  Or, you can script the clipboard yourself using ScriptMaster.

### DDR ###

### Logs ###

# History ##

Original bundle by Charles Ross, puvinyel@znp.pbz
Forked 3/12/11 by Donovan Chandler from Matt Petrowsky
